# MCNP_Simulation_for_Germanium_Detector
MCNP Simulation for Germanium Detector




The MCNP code (Monte Carlo N-Particle transport code system), developed and maintained by the Los Almos National Laboratory in the United States is a widely used to model and simulate scientific experiments or problems based on the “Monte Carlo Method”. The main concept is to model the cross-section of different outcomes starting from random samples, which makes the process hard to predict (intervention of random variables). In fact, the notion of random sampling is what distinguishes Monte Carlo methods from other methods. The MC approach is to generate a sequence of states/histories (using random sampling) and then generates approximations of the results by averaging over states for certain number of histories. Thanks to this method, it is now possible to track the life span of a particle as well as the different events it encounters while being transported.  


The MCNP code accounts for each scattering, its cross-section, changes in energy, direction and much more variables. In addition, it can deal with the transport of various particles such as, neutrons, gamma rays, coupled particles, and electrons (both primary source electrons and secondary electrons). A Monte Carlo simulation can be useful in a wide range of scientific problems in various field such as finance, engineering, supply chain, and science. It is also referred to as a “multiple probability simulation”. While using MCNP, it is necessary to remember the define and sample the geometry and source in a well-defined manner, in case of lost information, it cannot be recovered, the accuracy and reliability of the outcome should always be in question, use caution with variance reduction biasing, high number of histories does not guarantee the quality of results. MC method has a solid way of estimating uncertainty, it can generate presumably accurate results if the variables are well defined in the input file, and as a method it is considered quite simple and intuitive. However, this method also has a few drawbacks, for example it requires a lot of time and computations to approximate the outcome, if a large number of variables and constraints is given. If the set of variables that are input into the model are poor, then poor results are going to be output.
